{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red53\green53\blue53;\red26\green26\blue26;\red16\green60\blue192;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Gilad Barast\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300

\f1\fs26 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data Scientist,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dstillery.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Dstillery}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300

\i\b \cf3 Tuesday 2/23
\b0 \'a0at 5:00 PM in the classroom\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300

\f0\i0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf2 distillery : Data Science for business by FosterProvost Tom Fawcett  what you need to know about data mining and data-analytic thinking\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf2 ADVICE: \
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	1.	}80% of the time - preprocessing data\
{\listtext	2.	}have to learn the data\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	1.	}DOCUMENT EVERYTHING YOU LEARN\
{\listtext	2.	}START A CENTRAL REPOSITORY\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
programmatic advertising - there are many opportunities to show a user ads\
\
a crosswalk\
\
prospect rankings (have seen the ad)\
converters (engaged with the ad)\
p(sv | urls) = 1/(1+e^-(b0+b1x))\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93we extend your reach by finding more projects whose behavior is relevant to your brand \'97 right now!\'94\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf2 path to purchase: understanding the models\
(insurance, home imp, mortgage, investing, localness, real estate, credit reporting)\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf2 you make your opportunities - you decide things that later on have impact on what is possible. \
\
\
Dstillery Talk - Metis\
\
Most useful resource: Unix commands, sed, awk... for preprocessing\
\
Book: Data Science for Business - best reference\
\
For any new job, when familiarizing yourself with the data, document everything!\
\
Digital advertising in the day and age of big data:\
ds is used for:\
	predict user behavior\
	detect fraud\
\
programmatic advertising:\
	personalize ads\
	use stats models to determine what would be valuable to you\
	NYTIMES EXAMPLE:\
* ad exchange ->auction house: request for ad (NYTIMES)\
* dstillery listens to 5 billion ad requests a day, they pick the best ad for you with a bid in 5 milliseconds\
* one company wins the auction and their ad is served\
\
dstillery tracks to see if you go to the website of the ad served, within x days. This is a conversion. \
\
use servers, machine learning, to look at your browser history to maximize conversions.\
\
personalize the best ads at the best times based on where you are...\
\
Training the machine:\
	Predictive modeling: \
o your cookies\
o logistic regression - car purchase\
o create specific models for each customer, bmw - use cookies of the people that visit BMW's site then match to score users\
\
o pos labels - from the websites\
o neg labels - people who didn't convert\
o create model to predict whether new person will convert\
\
Where they get data:\
\
* tracking devices, visit client site, get a tracking device to forward your browsing behavior\
\
* buy third party data, visit history on the web "share your x on Facebook"\
\
* device behavior - on phone, ads on your phone gets device behavior, like device location. Lat and long of where you are when you were playing candy crush\
\
* device locations!!! map caucus areas, people who voted republican at caucus locations visited \
\
* tracked throughout the day, build a behavioral profile throughout the day to sell ads. They care about browsing history and device data.\
\
* you are using a laptop at office,, tablet at home, and phone on the way home -- all collected from aps that show ads because they send bid requests.\
\
* features: browser properties, os, device type, and operating system\
\
* how do you match cookies on different devices:\
* crosswalk - matches cell phone user to laptop :\
* statistical match: look at shared ip addresses, this laptop and this cell phone have the same IP address - use probabilistic models. filter out ip with 100s of device ids- probably a coffee house. \
\
* see cookies and score them in real time to decide whether to bid to serve an ad to them. \
\
observation, just watch.... cross the threshold, get served an ad, continue to be served the ad until they convert (they are no longer prospects, they are converters) or stop visiting websites and they fall back below the threshold, they stop being shown the ad.\
\
Score people and put them into different segments. y axis = performance, x axis= reach\
\
"We extend reach by finding more prospect whose behavior is relevant to your brand"\
people that have already been to the sites are the best bets but that group is small\
good prospects are people who haven't been to the site but their browsing profile match client\'92s customer base (looking at browser history)\
\
		distillery - tracks 30 days before conversion of converters browsing history.  Days before conversion heat map. Insurance site, converters visiting many other insurance websites, they also went to credit agency sites, home improvement sites... gains insight into converters history. Insight affects advertising strategy. People who are on insurance sites are ready to buy insurance, people who are on home improvement sites are 2 t-14 days. \
\
		Kiel\'92s, wants to know where their clients live. can place billboards in places where people buy keels.\
\
		\
what's noise:\
1. reliability issue on location information:\
	data is scrambled, or apps are untrustworthy \
	people piles\
	need to clean data and preprocess:\
	some apps have great location data, e.g. tinder\
	exclude porn sites, gambling data - it is excluded from the model\
2. Bots:\
	non-human traffic\
	people use bots to browse websites and ramp up site volume to get higher ad premiums \
	try to filter out these fraudulent websites.\
	co-visitation patterns (graph) of users don't make sense -- bots\
	find a list of shitty websites that employ bots and get a list of fraudulent websites.\
	exclude bot data and do not bid on those fraudulent websites\
\
Agenda to clients:\
what works\
	super targeted advertising \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}