{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The offers:\
\
Verbal offers are soft, discussed over the phone or in person. \
Resist accepting verbal offers\'85 always request it in writing!\
\
Say: thanks so much, I\'92m gracious and happy to get the written offer\
Once I have a written offer, we can go from there. \
Ok that\'92s great, can we add that to the written offer\
Eg. You are my top choice, take some time to make an informed decision\'85\
\
\
Ok wrttien offer:\
Start date, base salary, perks, fringe benefits (gym membership \'85. What class you fly in etc)\
You want to have a list of q..s\
\
Insurance is important, \
\
Compare to another offer in order to leverage\
\
Seek council!  \
Be in a position to accept or decline\'85 \
\
\
Understand who you\'92re negociating with. \
\
Good values (comfortable culture) (what does this mean?), mentorship, what are your numbers\
\
Higher expectations come with a higher salary\
\
Assertive, firm, confident. \'85 \
\
Always give a range  (if you give a number they could screen you out)\
\
Get a sense of timeline for the role, how soon do they want to fill the role\'85 u have more leverage if you\'92re looking to fill this immediately. \
\
Are they replacing someone or is this role new\'85\'85 if the company is growing, do they know what they want for that\'85 existiing range, if you\'92re replacing someone, then the duties are already in place. \
\
Google, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://salary.com"}}{\fldrslt salary.com}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://payscale.com"}}{\fldrslt payscale.com}}, career\'92s team, recruiter, metis alumn, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://glassdoor.com"}}{\fldrslt glassdoor.com}}, friends, \'85.use these resources\
\
Work experience, education, aptitude/potential\
Job: duties and responsabilities\
Team members making\
Size and budget\
Type of company\
\
Measure equity\'85. \
\
Data scientist level 1: 91K, level 2: 104.5K, level 3: 132K\
\
Negotiate\
What if they aren\'92t flexible:\
 - Put bonus onto salary. Never be pressured unless you are going to be homeless\
You\'92 are allowed to ask \'93can you give me some intuition into why you aren\'92t flexible\'94\
\
You\'92re not going to land your dream job out of metis\
How would this job set you up for your next job. \
\
\
If you get what you want, ask for more\'85. !!!!\
\
\
Thank you so much, I\'92m really excited about joining buzzfeed. I would like to get to (not hoping) how can we make this happen\'85 its all about the tone\
You should know why you are negotiating for more\
\
\
RESIST rushing an offer, being too brash or too timid, lying, accepting the first offer\
\
If they ask for your previous salary, ask them to explain why\
\
\
Final step, reflection:\
Assess the botch\'85 it wasn\'92t the offer that I wanted. Or walking away or accept\
\
\
3 ways to find\
Recruiter, networking, online\
\
\
Not always easy to find the technical recruiters at a compnay\'85\'85.\
So how?\
\
GOOGLE: \
Type in site: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://linkedin.com"}}{\fldrslt linkedin.com}} \'93company name\'94 technical recruiters\
\
1. During salary negociation (its as much aninterview for u as them)  (intangeable things they can offer: benefits, discounts, learning and professional growth, networking)\
 bb. Make sure you feel respected and valued through the process ( you want to work for someone who is able to negociate with you\'85 right?)\
\
2. Worth having a lawyer look at the contract (maybe not now) but for later jobs\'85 thee are little things here and there. Like ownership of code. You may create something you want to be able to take with you and have a once over by someone who is an expert with legal language. \
\
}